Hello and welcome to this
lecture on the elevator pitch.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to deliver
an effective elevator pitch.
And the goal here is to
basically introduce you to
a good outline that you should follow
when you're trying to organize a pitch.
One of the first things, of course,
that you should always do is brainstorm.
You should really think about what
it is that you're trying to do.
Is it an opportunity that you
want to convince somebody about?
Or is it a problem that you
think you have a solution for.
So brainstorm,
think of everything that you can,
all the players that are involved,
the context, the business situation.
Get that out on paper and
that should be able to lead you to
define the problem or the opportunity.
Basically, you want to make sure that
you're as precise as you can be.
Quite often elevator pitches are short.
They can range from 30 seconds up to
2 minutes, maybe a little bit more.
So you don't have a lot of time.
You want to be able to introduce yourself,
identify a problem or
an opportunity,
show them that you have the solution, and
then also convince them that they
should be able to do something.
Whether that's to take some sort of
action or invest in your company.
So, plan.
That's what you need to do.
Once you've identified
the focus of your pitch,
including the possible problems or
opportunities,
you should review how you could describe
or maybe analyze and solve the problems.
Or at least show how
the circumstances of your solution
will benefit the people that
you're trying to persuade.
Now remember, that people involved
in your business situation
may look at things from
different perspectives.
So should always be aware of what
they may feel, what are their values,
what are their beliefs,
what are they wanting to do, okay?
So once you've done this,
think about how you'll introduce yourself,
think about what you're going to
put in the body of your pitch, and
then think about how
you're going to conclude.
What is it that you want them to do?
Now, that's a very vague outline.
So what I want to do is I
want to go into more detail.
What should a good outline
about elevator pitch look like?
Well, I would argue that
there should be five steps.
The first step is your introduction,
and the next step is background,
followed by identifying a problem,
and then how your company, or
your idea can solve that problem,
and then you should ask your
audience to do something.
So that's your basic steps that you
should follow in any elevator pitch.
Let's go in detail now about each step.
So step one is Introduction.
This is where you introduce yourself and
your company and your position.
You want to be precise and concise here.
You don't want to waste a lot of time.
So this is probably the shortest
part of your pitch.
Get in there, let them know who you are,
who you work for, and
what your position is.
The next two steps are really
all about setting the context.
You don't want to waste
a lot of time here, but
you want to be as precise as you can.
Why is this important?
How is this relevant to your audience?
And how does this lead into
a problem that needs a solution?
Or how does it lead into an opportunity
that your company can address?
So this is all about setting the context,
why is it relevant?
And how does that lead into describing
the problem or opportunity.
Okay, once you've established
the background and
the context of the situation and
you've shown the audience how it's
relevant to them, you present your
argument and you need to support this.
You can support this by appealing
to logic, to emotion, to authority.
You can use different strategies
such as comparisons, contrasts.
You can use evidence,
you can use examples or refer to data.
The important thing is
that you are concise.
You get to your argument,
you show them why your solution or
your opportunity or
your idea is the right one.
And you may have to make sure of that
as you move from point to point,
that you use clear discourse markers.
And what I mean by that
is you use sign posts,
words like okay,
now that you've heard about the situation.
Phrases that connects
your ideas basically.
Finally, you make a call for action.
You let your audience know what
it is that you want them to do.
This should be again very brief and
precise.
You've introduced yourself already.
You've given background and
context to show why the situation
is relevant to the audience.
You've shown how you have
the capability to solve a problem or
take advantage of an opportunity.
Now this is where you ask your audience
to do something, whether it's for
investment in your company or
some sort of partnership agreement.
It really depends on your situation.
But this is where you
have to be very clear.
What is it that you want
your audience to do?
Remind them of why the ideas,
the key ideas and
the key points that you brought up
earlier are important to them, and
tell them what it is that
you would like them to do.
So let's review the five steps again.
You introduce yourself and the company.
You set the context of the situation,
give background so that your
audience understands the relevance of the
content that you're going to talk about.
You identify what the problem is,
or the opportunity.
You show how you can solve that problem,
or
how you can take advantage
of that opportunity.
And then you ask
the audience to do something
by reminding them that their
actions can benefit them and also
their actions can help solve a problem or
take advantage of an opportunity.
So that's basically the outline
of an elevator pitch.
It's very simple, five steps.
You can follow that outline and
plan it for a 30 second elevator pitch.
You can plan it for
a two minute elevator pitch.
It's really up to you and your situation.
The important thing is it needs
to follow a logical process.
It needs to be convincing, you need
to draw on your persuasive skills,
appealing to the audience,
appealing to emotion, appealing to logic.
You need to be able to use support
in your argument, examples, data,
comparisons, contrasts.
Rehearse your pitch,
make sure that you do it a few times
before you actually deliver it.
Record yourself doing it,
that's an excellent way.
By watching yourself deliver a pitch,
can show whether or
not you're being effective.
You might notice something
that you're missing.
You might notice that your
language is too vague or
you might notice that your organization
isn't exactly logical, okay.
So there you have it.
Now you should have an idea on
how to deliver an elevator pitch.
Thank you very much for watching.